Hello, welcome to the Python Bytes livestream.
So we've got a lot of fun stuff today.
Thanks everybody for showing up on the stream.
I'm blanking. Sorry.
Okay. Let me start over.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 245,
so it's not the first time.
Recorded August 4th 2021. I'm Brian Harkin. I'm Michael Kennedy
I'm Pompeii
So won't be thanks so much for coming on the show. Can you introduce yourself a little bit before we share?
Thank you very much for having me. So my name is Juan P
I'm from the Spain and the day my PhD in particle physics has been working at CERN
For four years then two years after my PhD finished
I decided to step away from academia and start working in industry and right now
I'm working at financial for which is a company that develops products for Salesforce. So I'm not developing products
I'm in the analytics team. So my job is to analyze internal data as well as usage
Product usage from a customer to allow the board to take data-driven decisions and how the company should go forward
- Nice.
- Yeah, super interesting.
Give us your thoughts real quick on one hand,
working for a place like CERN
and then the other working on a place
that like provides like enhancements to Salesforce.
Like those sounds so different.
Are they really that different or are they similar
or what's the story?
- Part, I mean, of course they're different,
but there is a big part which is very much the same,
at least in the team that I'm working on.
Because at CERN basically what you do
is you don't know the answer to anything
and you need to first know what you need to ask yourself.
And this is very similar to what happens today
in my current job, because for instance,
marketing come and say, we have this whatever campaign
and we want to know if we are targeting right.
And I need to know what do I need to do
to answer that question, but neither marketing knows.
So it's like, let's figure things out.
But yeah, I mean, it's a pretty drastic change,
But I don't know, I got a feeling that I needed to switch.
I like coding a lot and I felt at some point
that I was enjoying more the coding part
of being a physicist than the physics part.
- Yeah. - So I said--
- You basically described why I'm not in math anymore.
(laughing)
- Yeah. - I was working on projects
and I was having so much fun
and writing code on these Silicon graphics,
like huge computers and stuff.
And then there'd be parts where I'd be like,
"Ah, this part's not so fun. This part's amazing."
And I realized the programming parts were amazing.
And when I had to get down to solving the math bits,
I'm like, "Ah, darn. I had to put it up until the whole way.
I got to work on the math again."
I remember the last year and a half I was working on a project
that was literally designing a system that worked within GitLab CI
to automate paper review publishing.
So you don't need to have a lot of people reading the paper and say,
"Oh, this rule is not matched,"
Do you need to fix this image?
So I built an entire pipeline in python to check all of this that works based on pull requests and groups and so on in
GitLab ci
And I thought
I've been a year and a half not doing almost any physics. So my physics work
It was related to review paper because it was a chair of an editorial board
So I had an analysis. It was pretty cool, but I was doing I wasn't doing it
I received version review the made comment fix this fix that then go back to write a pipe and to make the pipe
Yeah, exactly
That sounds really cool
Well, yeah, go ahead will you kick us off today?
Will you want to hear about the state of the developer world? How's that sound?
I like state. Yeah. Yeah, so here's an interesting
survey results, I guess, put together by JetBrains,
the state of the developer ecosystem 2021.
And I thought this would be fun to talk about
because we do cover like the PSF state of Python survey
and things like that.
But I thought it'd be fun to just have a quick look
at the broader landscape, what people are doing
and where Python fits into that.
And JetBrains has done a really good job with the PSF survey.
So I thought, you know, this will be similar.
So let's check that out.
So let me give you some stats and some rundown on this.
So basically the idea is it presents the results
of the fifth annual developer ecosystem survey
conducted by JetBrains, and it went out to 31,000
or had input from 31,000, 32,000 people.
All right, so there's a couple of interesting things
they're doing in the presentation here,
but let's say in that world,
JavaScript is still the most popular language,
not if you ask Stack Overflow,
but of those 32,000 people or whatever,
Python's more popular than Java overall.
However, Java is used more as the main language.
So there's more people using Python
for extra things or for other things and so on,
which I think that jives pretty well
with my understanding of Python
is that it's this really amazing way
to like bring in a little interactivity,
bring in a little bit of analysis,
a little Jupyter notebook
or something, even if it's not your main focus, right?
You might be an economist, you're not even a programmer,
but you're still a Python person in a sense,
whereas you probably wouldn't be a Java person
as an economist most of the time.
- Yeah, I use Python for testing.
- Yeah, for sure.
So let's see, the top five languages
that developers are planning to adopt
are Go, Kotlin, TypeScript, Python, and Rust.
And the fastest growing languages are Python, TypeScript, Kotlin, SQL, and Go.
So for example, JavaScript was the most popular language.
Java was the most popular main language,
but they're neither the fastest growing languages.
So that's pretty interesting.
Of this group, 71% people work on some sort of web backend,
APIs, Flask apps, or Go apps, or whatever.
So they have a lot of interesting stuff here
in terms of analysis.
So they have these blocks that show how popular a language is,
it's been used, or how likely people are to adopt it
and pick it up.
So there's a bunch of grids if you go to the report,
and you can check them out.
And basically, the orange is the current state of the world,
and there's a darker, almost black,
that is like the derivative.
Like how quickly is that world changing for the upswing?
So for example, JavaScript has more orange squares,
but it doesn't have as quick of a growth
or a planned growth, I guess.
So Python has one of the larger ones,
so does TypeScript as well.
And those are interesting to look into.
You can compare those against different things.
You can also see the popularity of the language over time.
Python's been going up and up and up,
although this year it's kind of plateaued in this report.
So that's maybe something worth noting.
There's obvious things going down like Objective-C,
like you'd be insane to work on Objective-C right now
when Swift is like replaced it,
although that's going down as well.
Let's see, there's a few more things.
They have these really interesting graphs
that are both like grids, but also heat map.
So it'll let you answer questions like,
okay, if I am currently a Swift developer,
what is the likelihood that I'm going to adopt Python?
6%.
But if I'm a Kotlin developer,
that's 8% likelihood that I'm going to adopt.
Oh no, I'm going the wrong way.
If I'm a Kotlin developer,
I'm 10% likely to adopt, to move to Python and so on.
So there's a lot of sort of like flow
from one language to another.
I haven't seen any analysis like this in the past, have you?
- No, that's pretty interesting.
- Yeah, yeah. - It's looking at correlation or something.
What's the first row? I'm curious.
- I'm not planning on changing.
- So they are the most likely to change.
(laughing)
- Yeah, they're just stuck, they're staying.
- Yeah. (laughing)
- All right, let's see.
Also interesting operating systems people use
for development, 61% Windows, 47% Linux, 44% macOS,
which that's pretty high for macOS,
given its general popularity
amongst the computing world, I think.
- Yeah, I think Linux is pretty high too.
Windows doesn't surprise me.
- Yeah, exactly.
And then 1% other, who knows what that is.
Also questions about people using
the Windows subsystem for Linux and stuff like that.
There's also, if you're interested,
a similar heat map for like,
what type of software do you develop?
So if you're trying to understand where,
like if I develop this kind of software,
what is the distribution for programming languages there, right?
Like it's interesting to say Python is popular or JavaScript is popular,
but if I'm an embedded system developer,
is JavaScript still popular?
I don't know, probably not, maybe, but maybe not.
Right? Maybe C is like really popular.
So there's a really cool thing called what types of software do you develop?
There's like a grid plus heat map plus intersection of language and type.
So if I develop security software,
There's a 9% chance that I would be doing Python versus a 6% chance of Java.
On the other hand, if I do blockchain, how does that break down and so on?
Let's see where is Python kind of notable on utility little scripts.
It's quite popular there.
Yeah.
Database backends pretty popular in that area.
Let's see another one that maybe is stand out.
would be programming tools.
Actually, that's pretty interesting and so on.
Yeah, what do you guys think of this?
- I think it's weird that there's 39%
of the C++ developers are developing websites.
The heck?
- Yeah, what are they doing back there?
- What are you doing?
- Yeah, maybe the backend.
(laughing)
She reported in the middle, I don't know.
But it's weird, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, that is quite interesting.
- And then you get the standard business intelligence,
it makes sense.
- Yeah, the business intelligence one,
that one Python is definitely crushing it there, right?
It's like 30% versus 10, 15, 20% for the others.
Yeah, I guess one more,
there's all these different things you all can dive into.
I guess one more area that might be worth interesting
is they broke down like the type of coding
and software activities you do based on gender.
So for example, if you're male,
like how likely are you to do straight programming
versus testing versus user experience type stuff
or versus female.
And let's see, so there were some takeaways.
It says women are more likely than men
to be involved in data analysis, machine learning,
UI design and research,
but less likely to be directly doing
infrastructure development or DevOps.
But I mean, I kind of had that sense as well, but just.
- I mean, my personal experience
is completely the opposite.
So most of the DevOps people I work with are women.
But I think it kind of makes sense,
I mean, in the industry for what I'm seeing.
But for my, it's completely the opposite.
- Interesting.
Yeah, so I'll leave this out here
for people to go dive into and explore more.
I feel like I've gone probably over enough details there
to give you all a sense,
but there's some interesting things to be learned, I think.
- Yeah, definitely.
- Pretty cool.
- Yeah, and Matt out there in the live stream
points out that that might be more than a hundred percent.
I'm not sure which part you're talking about.
I do believe a lot of these had multiple,
you could check multiple things,
like which languages am I willing to adopt?
Well, I might be adopting both SQL and Python
in the next year, something like that.
- Yeah, I think a lot of people are perpetually
going to start learning Rust or Go,
but never started.
(laughing)
- That's true.
- At least we're learning how.
- Learning how.
(laughing)
- Pretty much.
- All right. - All right.
- Cornell.
So this was suggested by Yale Mintz.
And Michael, you know where Cornell comes from apparently?
- I'm thinking Soundgarden.
Some good 90s grunge.
I mean.
- Okay, maybe.
So Cornell is a record and replay mock server.
And we're going to link to the tool,
but also there's an introduction blog post about it.
And it supposedly makes it really simple to record and replay features
to perform end-to-end testing in an isolated test environment.
So the kind of the gist around it, there's a cool tool called VCRPi,
which saves cassette files for you send a request,
and you get replies back,
and then you can save those request reply sessions and stuff.
And this is a bundling VCR Pi with Flask to make a little server.
And it's actually really kind of a cool idea.
The idea, one of the things around it is that you can do,
you're not just mocking one service,
you could just mock in any external service
that you're dealing with, it'll do replays on that.
And one of the benefits over rolling your own mocks
or rolling your own test server or test service
is that you don't really have to think about
designing the whole thing.
It just kind of replays everything.
Looks pretty fun.
I haven't played with it yet, but definitely want to.
- Hey, speaking of play with it, click on documentation.
I think it is on that page right there at the bottom.
- Documentation.
- And then click on the documentation of that page.
There you go.
And so you have this kind of like a series
of animated GIFs of scene in action.
I think that that's kind of cool, right?
Like you can, it'll go along and say,
oh yeah, here you're recording a bunch of API calls
and then the workflow of like how you create it.
I just want to give a shout out to the animated GIFs for like,
"Is this interesting to me? Let me just watch the GIFs
instead of actually take the time to try to adopt it."
It's simple, but it seems really effective.
-Juanpe, what do you think? -It's a good idea.
No, it's a really good idea.
I mean, there are many projects that you think
this might be cool to work with,
and then you start reading walls of text,
and halfway through, I don't know if it's interesting,
but I mean, it's been half an hour.
So, having a bunch of GIFs is eye-catching, yeah.
- Yeah, for sure, for sure.
And then, yeah, also I just want a quick shout out
to the live stream.
German points out from his experience,
the data analysis have more men than women,
but it could be biased due to the tech sector
having more men in general.
I do think that that's true.
I think what they said is,
if you're a woman, what are you more likely to be doing?
If you're a man, what are you more likely to be doing?
And it's like, of that population,
what areas do you work in?
not that user experience has more men or women.
I don't think it addresses that question.
I think my thoughts here,
there's a lot of women who end up in programming
not down the traditional computer science path.
You know, they go into biology and then they're like,
oh, I've actually learned a little Python
and now I really like it and I work here and it's amazing.
But, you know, they kind of get pulled in tangentially
where there's a lot of guys
that like sign up for computer science
and they just go through that path.
And some of the areas that were called out
are more likely to take the straight computer science path
people, rather than the, I got interested
and I came in through psychology or something else, where
there would be more women.
So I don't know.
I would love to have more women in there,
but I think that this is my--
broadly speaking, but I think this is my thoughts about why
maybe those different areas seem to attract people not so
directly down the computer science path.
Anyway, yeah.
All right, Juanpe, you're up.
Talk to us about the next thing you got here.
- Sure.
So I wanna talk about Factory Boy.
I think it's a very well-known library
to basically mock objects when you're running tests.
And both this and the next tool I'm gonna talk about
came because we were working on a system
that replicates an entire Salesforce org.
So we have a infrastructure we've built that takes everything you have,
every object you have in Salesforce, and copy it to a database.
This is a way we have to have daily snapshot of the data
that we can do a time series and analysis
and all the models that we have on it,
instead of being a few minutes, let's say,
when you modify it, it's lost.
So for this, we obviously need to communicate a lot with the API in Salesforce.
And when you get API responses,
You need to not only treat the JSON plainly,
let's say, just the plain JSON object,
but you will like also to have some kind of representation.
And for this, I think it's not news for anyone.
The Pydantic right now is taking the floor.
And the biggest issue came
when we needed to start writing tests for it.
Because we get the JSON file,
we stick it in the Pydantic object, it validates everything,
everything's beautiful and works fine.
But then we have a bunch of fields on the object
that cannot be nulled, for instance,
or they are not optional.
So they need to come in the API
and we need to validate for those
because if the API does not return any of those,
it should break and tell us,
look, this is wrong, it's not what you expected.
So when we wanted to write tests for those
and we wanted to create objects for those in each test,
we noticed that out of hundreds of fields,
we might need to fill, I don't know, probably 80, 90 of them
because they were mandatory and it started to be very tedious.
And I remember I opened an issue in the Pydantic.
I say, "Hey, have you thought about probably allowing
creating an object with random fields that validate properly?
Like this feels an integer between 10 and 20."
So I just don't want to fill it.
I don't want to fill any of those
because I don't care for these tests.
Is there a way that I can say, okay, just fill whatever it validates?
And they say, no, it's out of the scope of Quarantic,
which also makes sense, I just wanted to ask in case.
And they said that probably in Factory Boy,
they might be interested in this.
So I went to Factory Boy, and I read the documentation.
It was pretty cool because it allows you to create
unifying an inside class.
So it's a meta class, not a meta class in the terms of Python meta classes,
but it's a class called Meta within the factory that you want.
It's weird because every time you say, "Yeah, this is the Meta class."
"Wait, the Meta class?" "No, it's a class Meta."
So you inherit from factory, then you define a class called Meta,
Meta, where you define what is your model.
So this is the object I want to mock with this factory.
And then you can define many fields with their default values.
The cool thing about this is that it implements also Faker.
So you can say if I have a username, I don't want to fill it.
Just give me a username and Faker will give you.
Yeah, Faker is really cool for generating stuff like that.
Yeah, and the amount of plugins you find for Faker is outstanding.
So you can fake almost anything you think of.
So the cool thing about this is that it's not only
you plug in the class that you have and it will fill it,
but you also can work with ORMs, like you can use
SQL, QM, or Django, or ORM,
and it will generate an object for this ORM
based on whatever you set these are the default values.
So I thought it would be great if I could do this also for Pydantic.
So I could just say, "These are the mandatory fields.
It puts something fake, you can think about it."
And then we're ready to go. But reading the documentation,
it didn't appear anywhere, and I thought, "Hmm, maybe I cannot use it for this case."
So I went ahead and opened it and said,
"Are you thinking about putting this also to work with Pydantic?"
I mean, it's now is booming and everyone is using it.
And if you are reading JSON from an API,
it's very likely that you have hundreds of fields
you don't care about.
You might want to fill it with whatever.
And I remember the author said,
"I didn't know this.
"I didn't know Pydantics,
"could you mention it,
"but internally what Factory Go is doing
"is creating a dictionary with the parameters
"you want to fill in and just unpacking it
"in the construction of the class.
"Have you tried it?"
And I was like, "No, I have not."
When I tried it worked.
So it was perfectly, I mean, maybe there are some quirks
of Pydantic that it kind of covers,
but if you're using Pydantic to store your data
from API calls and so on, from JSON and validates and so on,
a factory is pretty cool.
I mean, the amount of things you can do with this,
you can create many factory for the same class
and you can create fixtures like,
I don't know if you want to mock a new user,
you can have an admin or a buyer or whatever,
and then you can just define different factories,
and it will give you the usage you've defined.
And it's also pretty cool because the faker is randomized beneath it.
So if there are parts of your object that your code does not care about,
it's also a good test to have those parts being random
because if it really doesn't care, you don't care what those fields are,
and at some point, your test fails, it happens once,
it means that you actually can fix something.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I did see that if you need repeatable tests,
but you want Faker to generate random stuff,
there's a way to seed Faker.
- Exactly.
- Generate the random values,
but do it in a consistent way.
And one way you might want that is if you have an edge case
or some value that breaks the test,
and then you wanna put a break point
and press debug and go through it again,
but like, you know, how are you gonna get it
to hit that case again in a predictable way, right?
So if you tell it to say,
always do the same thing, but randomly,
you know, it'll make it,
so you can go back and look at it a second time
and figure out what's up.
- Yeah, you can fix that.
Sometimes it's also good to have them fixed,
even if you don't care.
I mean, you need to have a date time,
and for some reason you need to have the date time
being whatever and whatever, but you can validate for it.
So you can just, or either set it
or ensure that it's fixed.
Yeah, there are many use cases that you can
exploit that thing.
And it's actually really cool.
- Yeah, I usually, I almost always seed Faker
because I just, I don't, I'm not using it
because I want the randomness.
So I'm using it because I don't want to come up
with the data.
- Yeah, exactly.
So make it so that it does the same thing every time.
Just gives you the random data that you want.
That's right.
Agreed.
Very, very cool.
- All right, the next one up actually is pretty,
it's sort of related to that.
It's called PyInstrument.
Have either of you heard of PyInstrument?
- Not until now.
When I read the notes and it sounds pretty cool.
- Yeah, right?
- No, I haven't.
- Yeah, so it's a call stack profiler for Python,
which is pretty cool, right?
It's just gonna tell you where your code is slow,
but it's, you know, it looks really clean.
And when you look at the output,
it can actually give you the results in the terminal.
So if you want to see, you know, like you run this thing,
instead of saying Python, my Python.py file,
you would just say py instrument, that same file,
and it'll run it, but then at the end,
it's going to generate a whole bunch of things
about how long it took and whatnot.
And then you actually get like colored output
in the terminal showing which lines of code
are spending how much time in different places.
And it seems like it's a real good way
to just sort of quickly dive in
on where you're spending your time.
- Yeah, I'm definitely gonna try this.
It's cool.
- Yeah, one thing I like about it is the simplicity
of like pip install pyinstrument,
pyinstrument your file.
That'll give you the answer, right?
- That for me solved it.
I mean, every time you want to do some profiling,
unless they spend some time tweaking things
so you get what you want.
The fact that this is just running with PyInstrument,
whatever script you want, I mean, I'm gonna try for sure.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
And when you do profiling, you end up in this
sort of quantum mechanics world of,
if you observe a thing, you've changed it.
So there might be code that is like,
this half is 50/50 and this half is 50/50 of the time,
but one is calling an external system once
and the other is a tight loop.
And if you profile that with instrumentation,
it's going to wreck it.
It's going to make the loop look way slower
'cause now you've added a bunch of overhead to each step
where there's very little overhead
to this external service sort of thing.
And this one uses sampling
and the sampling doesn't really have that effect.
It just every so often,
like every millisecond or something that says,
what are you doing now?
What are you doing now?
Who called you?
Right?
And so it's more of a polling sort of thing
rather than slowing down a line by line code.
So that's probably worth doing as well.
- Yeah, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's like you can specifically jump in
and just do a section of your code
that you care about also.
- Exactly.
If you wanna say,
so one of the things that I hate about profiling is
it'll say 87% of your time was in the startup code
and the imports.
You're like, yeah, okay, that's not relevant to me.
What I wanna know is the part
that I'm actually trying to test here.
How long did I spend there?
And please don't pollute that with other junk
about like starting up Python
or loading modules or whatever, right?
And so you can, there's an API
and you can say from Python import profiler,
And then you can do a context block in there and run it.
And just that code will tell you like how long it takes.
Does anything else jump out there at you, Brian?
And like with this example I got on the screen here,
that will be hard.
- It's an async example for one.
- Yeah, as an async and a wait.
And so they recently released PI instrument four,
which will actually give you the information
about the async code as well.
So it'll, let's see what it says.
So it has async support,
PyInstrument now detects when an async task hits an await
and tracks the time spent outside of the async context
under the await.
Whereas before it would basically just profile
the asyncio event loop or something silly like that.
So if you're trying to profile async and await
and asyncio, this might be your best option
'cause it specifically supports that.
- That's good.
So what happened before if you use a different profile?
- It would say, yeah, it says you only see the time spent
in the run loop and it'll basically tell you like,
here you see like run once, the select
and then the Q control built in.
It's just like, there's this asyncio event loop
just cranking around waiting for the signal
for the IO to be done.
and it just says, well, you're waiting on this,
you're in the loop, you know what I mean?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, so, yeah.
So now you get a little bit better.
Like it says, okay, you're waiting on this line
of your code for a second or whatever it is.
Yeah, there's also, I'll shout out a few more things here.
Is it in the stock?
Yeah, so,
they also, there's also a bunch of simple authentication
they did previously about network calls and stuff.
and there's an interactive Vue.js app
that you can get with Flame Graphs.
So instead of looking at it in the terminal,
you can look at it in your web browser
and explore into those.
So yeah, there's a lot of neat little things here.
I pulled out the show notes,
but it seems like a really nice way to do some profiling
and you just high instrument your code and you have a look.
- Cool.
- Yeah, I personally kind of like the default output.
I know that a lot of people like Flame Graphs.
like they don't really do much for me.
They look like, I don't see the data,
but it's cool that it has both.
- Yeah.
A couple of things from the live chat.
Maddy says, "Pi instrument is a statistical
"or sampling profiler,
"which is better paradigm for profiling."
I think it depends.
I mean, the instrumentation ones do give you
more precise information,
but it's also skewed with the overhead of that information.
So it depends, but this is the least influential one
for sure.
And then Avaro says,
"How would you use PyInstrument with an entry point?"
That's a good question.
Not knowing the answer off the top of my head,
maybe make another Python file that just imports
your library and calls the entry point
and then profile that.
But there's a real quick cheat, you know, just make it call it and then
pi instrument that file. But there may be some way to say like dash m and give it
a module and a thing to do. So yeah, that's it, Brian. That's it for pi instrument.
>> Cool. Well, I just wanted to remind everybody that Python 3.10 release candidate one came out
yesterday. So Pablo announced it just on the third, I think. I think it was yesterday.
Isn't it the fourth today? Yeah, anyway. So 3.10 is out. If you've got, well, 3.10,
RC1 is out. The timelines that we're looking at then, we're getting excited, it's coming up. So
So September 6th is the plan for RC2,
and then October 4th is the plan for the official release.
So we're just really right around the corner. It's nice.
And this is definitely a time, I know we've brought this up before,
but if you maintain any third-party Python packages,
you probably should have already been testing it against 3.10.
But if you haven't, definitely do it now
to make sure that people that use your stuff don't.
that doesn't break when they need to.
And then in the show notes, we put just a list of,
just a reminder of some of the new changes in 3.10.
We've definitely talked about some of these before,
structural pattern matching,
which is the switch statement kind of thing.
And then, yeah, lots of these other things we've covered.
I'm kind of actually, I like the union types,
because there's a lot of stuff that I write
that the default is none,
but the normal type is something else.
So you can really easily say the type is none or int,
or something like that.
And that's a lot cleaner than before.
I've already started using 310
to test everything that I support.
So hope everybody else has as well.
- Yeah, cool.
I like the optional length checking in zip, right?
Zip taking two collections
and you wanna pair up the items,
Like if those things don't match, that should be a problem.
Also like the or for the types information.
And I think dict and some of those types
are now don't require a from typing imports.
- Oh, right, yeah.
- I don't see it called out here,
but one of the problem was,
maybe that's explicit type aliases, I'm not entirely sure.
But if you wanna say this type is a dictionary
of strings and integers, you would have to say
from typing import capital D dict
and then dict square bracket, string comma int,
whereas now you can just use the lowercase d-i-c-t
and you don't have to have that import
and you can do that sort of thing too.
So I'm looking forward to that.
- Yeah, a lot of the, a lot of,
with this, a lot of the common type hints,
you won't have to do the import anymore.
And that's great.
So I think that's really all I was using the import for
was things like dict and set, things like that.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Didn't that, I mean, I seem to remember that 3.10
was the one that was including these built-in types
without having to import from typing.
Didn't that update might break
some of the libraries that use typing?
- Like Pydantic and FastAPI.
- The thing that that was, was to use it in,
basically use it as a string
and not actually evaluate the type.
I think that like, so if you had your own type,
your own pedantic type that was a customer,
I think you could put customer,
but it wouldn't be actually evaluated
until a type checker hit it or something like that.
- Forward typing.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So this ability to specify the type
on like lowercase ddict is related, but it's not the same.
- Okay.
- And I'm pretty sure that that fear around Pydantic
is not in 3.10.
- Yeah, either got postponed or rolled back or modified.
Yeah.
- I just want to talk about the one that says,
what was the number?
Six, two six, do you have it?
- Yeah, the precise line numbers
for debugging and other tools.
- I think it's very underrated.
(laughs)
It's gonna be one of those things
that when people get used to it,
it's like, I don't know how you live without this.
- Oh yeah.
Yeah, there's not a good example shown right off the bat,
but it's pretty cool.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Very cool, and then we also have better
stack trace error messages, right?
- Yeah. - Yeah, those are coming.
A lot of good things to look forward to.
- Yeah.
- All right, Juanpe, you got the last item.
- Great.
- I think it's time for it.
You wanna take us out, right?
- Sure.
Yeah, so let's talk about Time Machine.
I said we were building this tool
that copies an entire Salesforce org.
One of the things that we need to orchestrate everything
is to timestamp almost every action we do.
This means that in many places all over the code,
we have a DaytimeUTCNow method call.
And when we are testing it, we need to be able to mock it.
And if you've tried to patch DaytimeUTCNow
with the usual patch method, it works, you can do it,
but you need to do it with a patch
and then you pass the string,
but the module where this UTCNow call is,
and then you're good to go.
But when you have this in many files in the same test,
you need to patch every one of those
because otherwise it wouldn't work.
So I tried to use patch object and patch daytime and say,
okay, I want to patch the, you know, method of this object.
And it will of course complain and say,
you cannot patch a built-in type like daytime, daytime.
So I was looking for how we could patch this
and I found Freescan, which is a very well-known library
thing to patch this kind of things.
But suddenly I noticed that once I started using Frisk,
and all of my tests took much longer to complete.
It's not like deal breaker.
So it went for probably five minutes to seven,
or seven and a half.
But it was very surprised because our pipeline
or deployment pipeline really take a long time.
So every time I can reduce a minute, it's good for me.
And when I saw it going up two minutes,
I was surprised, why is this happening?
And then I learned that what Freescan is doing
is actually scanning all your dependencies
and making the patch for every call you make
to the methods of data.
And then in trying to see if there was something else,
I found out Time Machine.
Time Machine is a very cool,
not so well-known, I think, library
that allows you to do basically the same
that Freescan allows you to do.
so you can just patch almost any method call in daytime or time
with a simple decorator in your test.
It also supports pytest fixtures that you can use.
The good thing about this is that it does not scan for imports of date and datetime,
and what it does is actually change the underlying C-level calls
that you make to get the time.
So every time you say, "I want to patch any call
to be on January 1st of 2019," for instance,
it will just call it normally,
but the underlined C calls that will be made
will return this time instead of the other ones.
You don't need to scan everything to patch it.
Another thing that I thought was pretty cool
is you can let the time tick after you patched it.
So you say, "This is for February 1st of 2018,"
And once you enter the mock, either with a decorator
or with a context manager,
you can also use like standard patch call,
then time start passing,
starting on that time that you mocked it for.
So you can do perf counters and all this thing normally,
but if you need to stay in a given day for a test,
you can do it.
So I thought it was pretty cool.
It solved my two extra minutes running
because we have many places and many files
and the project would be UCHC now.
And it was pretty well.
- So this must have had incremental,
I mean, it has a little bit of time
that has to do its work,
but it's fast enough that you're not noticing it then?
- No, I'm not noticing anything.
I mean, it runs more or less the same.
- Okay, well, that's pretty good.
- I imagine there should be some delay,
but it's not as noticeable as what happened with Freescan.
- Yeah. - It took some time.
- Yeah, I'm really glad you brought this up.
This is cool.
- It's probably pretty good.
- Yeah, exactly.
I say, Brian, you probably,
this is kind of in your world, right?
Like dealing with time as a dependency.
- Definitely.
And there's, sometimes it's really,
you want it fixed because you really want fixed answers.
'Cause like your timestamps and stuff are in your data.
You're gonna have to, I mean,
it's good to compare against known oracles,
But there's also times where you...
And this is where Freescan isn't so bad,
but maybe this would be really useful too,
is if you want to test certain things.
There's weird quirky dates you want to make sure
that your software deals with certain times fine.
Does it work fine when it's running
over like overnight on December 31st to January 1st,
things like that, when the year changes and things like that.
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, you always wanna test your boundary conditions,
right, and crossing over time or weird cases
like March 29th and stuff like that.
You're like, let me just try that
and see if this is gonna survive.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, but then, I mean, to be fair,
I think most of the time,
things like this are used are,
like was brought up is that the time shows up in the data.
So in order to compare the, you know,
or the log or something in order to compare those apples
to apples, it's nice to have the same dates there.
I can't tell you how many times I've had to compare
two log files and strip out the times
because those are the, like those are the,
every line's different because the timestamp's different.
So, yeah.
- Yeah, very cool.
Nice find.
- So that's all for Time Machine, yeah.
- Yeah, super.
- Well, that's our six items, everybody.
Have you got anything extra, Michael?
- Well, I have the old thing that is new again.
Let's see.
I have some bandits.
So the drama around supply chain vulnerabilities
and open source repositories goes on.
So this one, I think actually the other article
to talk about a co-script to us from Joe Ridley.
Thank you, Joe, for sending that in.
But basically there's some more malicious things
in PyPI again, and people just remind everyone
to be careful and maybe white list stuff.
Yeah, this one, I don't know what this one was.
If it was typo squatting this time around
or it was just something else that got put up there.
Yeah, there's one headline is,
"Credit card stealing malware
found in official Python repository."
And the other one is,
same one about our technical article says,
"Software downloaded 30,000 times from PyPI
ransacks developer's machines.
Expect to see more of these Frankenstein type things."
'Cause it's basically a systemic threat,
like how does it get dealt with?
I'm not sure if they list out.
Yeah, so they did interesting stuff as well.
Like they did simple obfuscation of the code
that was being run.
So you couldn't look at it and say,
look for a credit card or look for a Bitcoin wallet
and then go do your evil deeds in Python source code.
So they would do things like base 64
and code the Python code and then just in memory,
decode it, then run it.
So they were trying to get around things like that.
So anyway, people can check that out and it's not ideal
but just a reminder to beware.
- Yuck.
- Yuck, yuck, yuck.
This is why we can't have nice things.
Come on people.
- This is why we can't have nice things.
Well, I got a couple of things I wanted to bring up
just things I've been up to.
Just released episode 162 of testing code
and I kind of run through all the different flavors
of test-driven development that I know of.
So there are quite a few versions.
So check it out if you're interested
in test-driven development.
And then I'm just working on wrapping up the talks
and continuous integration chapter
for the second edition of the pytest book.
So it'll be coming out hopefully within a week.
- Very cool.
Good to see you making progress there.
Do you have anything extra, Wampi?
- Nope, not from my side.
I'm very happy to be here.
- Let's go to a joke.
- Yeah, it's good to have you here.
All right, let's go to a joke.
So this one's visual.
If you're listening, you're gonna have to go to the,
scroll down to your podcast show notes at the bottom.
Just click on the joke link.
One of the things you guys, I like about Python
is there's a lot of stability in the code that we write.
You know, if I wrote something on Flask five years ago,
chances are it'll still run, right?
If I write my Python code now,
it's probably still gonna run.
Yeah, there's new things,
there's new shiny visualization frameworks and stuff,
but generally it's pretty stable.
You know what is the opposite of that?
JavaScript.
So here's a little animation,
and it says JavaScript developer bouncing
from framework to framework,
and it's this incredible,
like almost people are awesome type of thing
where somebody set up, you know, 50 workout balls
on a running track,
the whole straight of a quarter mile running track
and somebody jumps on it and just like glides
from one to the next.
What do y'all think?
- The fact that he's able to do this is surprising.
- It's really impressive that he pulls it off.
And it's on one of these like sandy gritty running tracks.
It's gonna hurt like crazy if he misses it.
So maybe there's motivation, you know?
- Actually, I remember the GenBrain report
you said before I was thinking,
I didn't say anything, but I didn't want to mean,
but you were saying, how likely are you to change languages?
And it was like, well, JavaScript,
they're going to change a lot.
Then I thought, oh, they're languages, not frameworks.
- Exactly.
How likely are you to change your framework?
Well, that's like, nearly a hundred percent.
- Yeah, that's true.
I mean, people stick around like,
you got Django developers have been doing it for years.
- 10 years and they're more excited today
than ever about it, right?
They're not like, we're ditching this.
- Yeah.
- All right, well, that's, does that count?
Does that count as a joke?
- Yeah.
- Oh, I laughed.
- All right, perfect.
Well, that's what I brought for you all.
- Well, thanks to everyone for showing up
and had a fun day today.
Hope everybody else did.
- Thanks a lot for having me here.
- Thanks Brian, and thanks for being with us Pompeii.
- Bye. - Bye bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]